- **Video**: [[Balaji Srinivasan at Startup School 2013]] {{[[youtube]]:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cOubCHLXT6A}}
- **Channel**: [[Y Combinator]] [(Link)](https://www.youtube.com/c/ycombinator)
    - **Transcript:** 
    - I can talk about Y Combinator. I guess I guess y'all know about that. Let me introduce myself briefly. While things are loading here, so my name is Balaji Sreenivasan, there's actually 12 people with my same first and last name in the bay area alone in in fact I randomly ran into another one of them at Stanford and founded a genomics company with him. 
    - I got my B SMS PhD at Stanford and in 2006 I started teaching computer science and statistics there. I left Stanford in early 2008 scandalizing the department to found a genomics company which has become very successful, our names Council and we test about three percent of all births in the United States. I also taught a MOOC at startup at stanford*edu, which has become quite successful, but I'm going to talk about something fairly different today, so we go yes, work. Okay, so we want to talk about today is something I'm calling Silicon, Valley's, ultimate exit, and so as motivation here, you know it's a bit. 
    - Topical is the USA, the Microsoft of nations. We can take this sort of thing and we can expand it. Codebases 230 years old, written in an obfuscated language system was shut down for two weeks: trade, systematic Fudd on security issues, fairly ruthless treatment of key suppliers, uh generally favors its rich enterprise customers, but we still have to buy it, and you know if we think about Microsoft itself there's a great quote from Bill Gates in 1998.What did he fear?
    - It wasn't Oracle or anybody like that. What he feared were some guys in a garage who happened to be. Ultimately, we found it was Larry and Sergey back in 1998, and the thing about what Larry and Sergey did is there's no way that they could have reformed Microsoft from the inside. At that time, Microsoft already had 26,000 employees joining us numbers 26,000, 26,000 one and in trying to push for 20 % time or free lunches, they probably wouldn't have gone too far. 
    - So what they had to do was start their own company. They had to exit and with success in that in that alternative, then Microsoft would imitate them, and this is actually related to a fundamental concept. In political science, the concept of voice versus exit, the company or a country is in decline. You can try voice or you can try. 
    - Exit voice is basically changing the system from within, whereas exit is leaving to create a new system, a new startup or to join a competitor. Sometimes, loyalty can modulate this, sometimes that's patriotism which is voluntary and sometimes it's lock-in which are involuntary barriers to exit, and we can think about this in the context of various examples and start to get a feel for this. So um you know voice in you know the context open-source would be a patch exit would be a fork voice in the context of a customer would be a complaint form, whereas exit would be taking your business elsewhere voice in the context of a company. That'S a turnaround plan exit is leaving to found a startup and voice in the context of a country is voting while exit is immigration. 
    - So up there are those two images on the left is the normal Rockwell painting on voice on the right actually uh, my dad in the center and that's a you know, kind of a grass hut on the right-hand side. So you grew up on a dirt floor. In India and left because India was an economic basket case and there's no way that he could have voted to change things within his lifetime, so he left uh and it turns out that while we talk a lot about voice in the context of the US and Talk about democracy, that's very important, but you know we're not just a nation of immigrants. We'Re nation of immigrants were shaped by both voice and exit, starting with the Puritans. 
    - You know they fled religious persecution. You know, then, we started moving west, leaving the East Coast bureaucracy to go to the Western nations later late, 1800s Ellis Island people living pogroms and in the 20 century fleeing Nazism and communism, and sometimes people didn't just come here for a better life that came here To save their life, that's the you know airlift in in at the end of Saigon um, and it's not just the u*s*, that's shaped by exit Silicon Valley itself is also shaped by exit. You can date it back to the founding of Fairchild Semiconductor, with the traitorous eight and the founding of Fairchild on the fact that non-competes are not enforceable in California um, and you know the fact that VC funds disruption not just turn around. You know the concept of forking an open source. 
    - You know, if you think, about the back button, that is in some ways on the cheapest ways to exit something and, of course, the concept of a start-up itself that right there. If you guys haven't seen as one of why commoners first ads, Larry and Sergey won't respect you in the morning, so the concept here is that exit is actually an extremely important force in complement voice and it's it's something which is um, something that gives voice its Strength so in particular, protects minority rights in the upper left corner, for example, you can imagine two countries and country one is following policy: a and country two following policy, be some minority you know is potentially interested in following policy be where, but a is very stridently. You know promulgated by the majority um, however, there's some other country, maybe a smaller country, maybe another country - that's actually quite into be, and so that person lead - and you know, they're not initially super into it b-but. This B question mark and what happens is they're all the other guys and in AC that people are actually leaving. 
    - They really care about this particular policy so much that they actually left it could be a feature where people are leaving for a competitor. It could be a bug that you haven't fixed, so people fork the project and take it somewhere else. What happens is exit amplifies voice right?So it's a crucial additional feature for democracy is to reduce the barrier to exit, to make democratic voice more powerful, more successful, and so a voice gains much more attention when people are leaving in droves - and you know if I would bet that exit is a reason Why half this audience is alive?
    - Many of us have our ancestors who came from you, know: China, Vietnam, Korea, you know Iran places where there's war or famine economic basket cases exist is something that I believe we need to preserve and exist. So exists really a meta concept, it's about alternatives. It'S a meta concept that subsumes competition, forking founding and physical immigration. It means giving people the tools to reduce influence of bad policies over their lives without getting involved in politics. 
    - The tools peacefully opt out, and if you combine those three things you know, this concept of the u*s* is a Microsoft formations. You get this concept of Silicon Valley's ultimate exit. Basically, I believe that the ability to reduce the importance of decisions made in DC, in particular without lobbying or sloganeering - it's actually going to become extremely important over the next ten years, and you might ask why?So the reason why is that today it's Silicon Valley versus what I called a paper belt?
    - There'S four cities that used to run the United States in the post-war era: okay, Boston with higher ed New York City with Madison Avenue. You know books, Wall, Street newspapers, Los Angeles with movies, music, Hollywood and, of course, DC with laws and regulations formerly running the country, and so I called him the paper belt after the Rust Belt of your um and in the last 20 years, a new competitor to The paper belt arose out of nowhere Silicon Valley and by accident, we're putting a horse head in all of their beds, all right, we are becoming stronger than all of them combined and to get a sense of this. You know Silicon Valley is reinventing every industry in these cities that X up there is supposed to be a screenplay. For you know the paper of LA and LA is going to iTunes. 
    - You know BitTorrent, your Netflix Spotify YouTube. That'S real does really the first on the hit list, starting in 99, with Napster New York right alongside AdWords Twitter, blogger, facebook, Kindle Aereo we're going after newspapers we're going after Madison Avenue were going after book. Publishing we're going after television Aereo figured out how to put a solid-state antenna in a server farm, so you don't have to pay any TV fees for over there. Recording recently Boston was next in the gun, sights Khan Academy, Coursera, Udacity and most interestingly DC, and by DC I'm using as a metonym for just you know, government regulation in general, because it's not just DC.
    - It includes local and state governments, uber Airbnb, a stripe Square and of course you know, the big one. Bitcoin are all things that thread in DC's power. It is not necessarily clear that the US government can ban something that it wants to ban anymore, and so because of this, it's something I called a paper jam. The backlash is beginning. 
    - Okay, you know more jobs predicted for machines, not people. Job automation is a future unemployment crisis looming in prison by innovation. As you know, tech wealth explodes Silicon Valley. You know poverty spikes. 
    - They are basically going to try to blame the economy on Silicon Valley say that as an iPhone and Google, that done did it not the bailouts of bankruptcies and the bombings, and you know this is something which we need to identify as false, and we need to Actively repudiate so we must respond via voice. Consumption spreads faster today that shows the absolute exponential rise of technologies over the last century. You know anything that is initially just the province of the 1 %, whether it be computers or cell phones quickly becomes the province, the 5 % in the 10 % that MVP that barely works, that someone is willing to pay thousands and thousands of dollars for allows. You to fix the bugs to get economies of scale, to bring it to the 10 percent and the 20 percent in the 50 percent of middle class and the 99 percent. 
    - Technology is about reducing prices, the bottom curve. There is Moore's law and, by contrast, the paper belt raises them. There is a tuition bubble in the mortgage bubble and the medical care bubble and too many bubbles to name, and so the argument that you know the valley is a problem is in parent but um. You know it's not going to be sufficient to respond via voice. 
    - We can make this argument, but Delta Minh contra argument is actually exit and not necessarily physical exit, but exit in a variety of different forms. What they're, basically saying is you know, rule by DC means people are going back to work and emerging meme?Is that rule by us is ruled by terminators we're going to take all the jobs um, whereas we can say - and we can argue you know - DC's rule is more like you know, ruin building in Detroit and downright there is actually like a Google Data Center right And so we can go back and forth verbally, but ultimately this is about counterfactuals. They have aircraft carriers, we don't. 
    - Um, it wouldn't be smart um. So we want to show what a society run by Silicon Valley would look like without actually affecting anyone who still really believes the paper belt is actually good and that's where exit comes in. What I mean by Silicon Valley's, ultimate exit, it basically means build an opt-in society, ultimately, outside the US run by technology, and this is actually where the valley is going. It'S not about a location-based app, it's about making location completely irrelevant, so Larry Page, for example, wants to set aside a part of the world from regulate experimentation. 
    - If you like, your country, you can keep it same with Mark Anderson right, the world is going to see an explosion of countries and years ahead, double triple quadruple countries right since the end of the Cold War. Singapore'S healthcare system is an example to the rest of the world. Estonia actually has you know digital parking meters and all kinds of things. We can copy those things without necessarily taking the risk. 
    - So importantly, you don't have to fight a war. To start a new company. Okay, um, you don't to you, know, kill the former CEO and a duel um. So a very important meta concept is create peaceful ways to exit and start new countries. 
    - So you know to the founders of you know: PayPal, Peter Thiel is into seasteading the law and musk wants to build a Mars colony and you can scale it back to you know even on Hacker News. Just recently, within the you know, realm of someone on start number, one versus start number: two, these guys just went and brought a private island just random. There doesn't exactly look like Oahu um, but the best part is this: the people who think this is weird the people who sneer at the frontier right who hate technology. They won't follow you out there. 
    - Okay, that's the thing about you know exit is you can take as much or a little bit as you want?You can do the equivalent of dual booting or telecommuting. Simply you know going on to Reddit, rather than you know, watching television is a way of opting out there is this entire digital world up here, which we can Jack our brains into and we can opt out um. The paper belt may stop us from leaving, and that's actually what I think of is one of the most important things over the next 10 years is to use technology, especially mobile, to reduce the barriers to exit um. 
    - You know with it: we can build a world run by software or some example, 3d printing will turn regulation to DRM will be impossible to ban physical objects from medical devices to drones, to cars. You can 3d print all these things and their entire three-letter regulatory agencies that are just you know, devoted to banning goods with you know, Bitcoin, you know, capital controls become packet, filtering it's impossible to do bail-ins if everyone's on Bitcoin to seize money as they did in Cyprus or in Poland with quantified self medicine, is going to become mobile, you're going to be able to measure yourself but telepresence. Double robotics is just the start. You know any bots these. 
    - You know robots that you can control remotely moving them around like a doom video game, soon they'll be humanoid on their site and they're going to get pretty good. So you can be anywhere in the world walking around with a humanoid robot on the other side, and you know, without paying a plane ticket drones. Gon na become code management via robotics is going to become automation and property rights are going to become a network effect. If you know about Bitcoin, smart property, so technological details, these are topics for the next move. 
    - You can sign up at coursera*org front. Slash course: startup here will be a better the third time around um, but that's what I think you know if you want to think big. If you want to think about things that are next build technologies as minimal or as maximal as you want for what the next society looks like, it could be something as simple as long people in the middle class to make tax shelters. You know apps that allow people to travel and relocate better, because it's a huge pain to move from city to city um. 
    - Anything you can think of that reduces the barrier to exit that that reduces locking if we work dealer might be able to build something like this Thanks.
