- #Quotes
    - [[Zero To One]]
        - Monopoly is the condition of every successful business.
        - Tolstoy opens Anna Karenina by observing: “All happy families are alike;  each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.” Business is the opposite. 
            - All happy companies are different: each one earns a monopoly by solving a unique problem. All failed companies are the same: they failed to escape competition.
        - Customers won’t care about any particular technology unless it solves a particular problem in a superior way. And if you can’t monopolize a  unique solution for a small market, you’ll be stuck with vicious 
competition.
        - Monopolists pretend not to be monopolies, and non-monopolists pretend to have monopolies
            - So let me tell you a little bit about the lies people tell. If you imagine that there was a spectrum of companies from perfect competition to monopoly, the apparent differences are quite small because the people who have monopolies pretend not to. They will basically say, and it’s because you don’t want to get regulated by the government, you don’t want the government to come after you, so you will never say that you have a monopoly. So anyone who has a monopoly will pretend that they are in incredible competition. And on the other end of the spectrum if you are incredibly competitive, and if you’re in some sort of business where you will never make any money, you’ll be tempted to tell a lie that goes in the other direction, where you will say that you’re doing something unique that is somehow less competitive than it looks because you’ll want to differentiate, you will want to try to attract capital, or something like that. So if the monopolists pretend not to have monopolies, the non-monopolists pretend to have monopolies, the apparent difference is very small whereas the real difference I would submit is actually quite big. So there’s this distortion that happens because of the lies people tell about their businesses and the lies are sort of in these opposite directions.
        - Monopolist describes a large union of vastly different markets with lots of competiton; non-monopolist describes the small intersection where they are the only player
            - Let me drill a little bit down further on the way these lies work. So the basic lie you tell as a non-monopoly is that we’re in a very small market. The basic lie you tell as a monopoly is the market you’re in is much bigger than it looks. So typically if you want to think of this in set theoretic terms, you could say that a monopoly tells a lie where you describe your business as the union of these vastly different markets, and the non-monopolist describes it as the intersection. So that in effect, if you’re a non-monopolist you will rhetorically describe your market as super small, you’re the only person in that market. If you have a monopoly you’ll describe it as super big and there’s lots of competition in it.
