- > “What you believe matters, however. It’s all anyone has to act on. And since what you do is who you are, your actions define you. If you don’t believe anything is true simply because you can’t logically prove what’s true, you won’t do anything. You won’t be anything. You’ll end up spending your life in a rocking chair looking out at the horizon waiting for an answer that never comes. You might as well be dead. It’s an old philosophical problem.” — [[Russell Banks]], [[Lost Memory of Skin]]
- You are what you eat.
- {{[[TODO]]}} clean up; previous writings.
- People need a skill-based identity. A skin made not of 'character' but of knowledge and actions. How does this matter in the context of [[The Information Platform of The Future]]?
- Let me give you an example. When I want medical advice, I want to hear what doctors have to say, but I might also be interested in the ayurvedics' opinions, as well as that of past patients! I __don't__ want to hear what a random supplement selling website or Healthline is saying. Skin the game is important!
- Even more important is the ability to choose who I want to hear from— the sheep or the Wolf. 
- We (the algorithm) systematically sort and make categories, but we allow users to choose their categories. this could completely pop [[filter bubbles]]. An example of how this would work can be seen on [TheirTube](https://www.their.tube/), a project that simulates the [[Youtube]] homepage of people with various political stances. Imagine this, but on a more categorical level. I would love to see what the homepage of the average psychologist, elite athlete, or German looks like!
- I tell you what I like -> you work out what kind of person I am, and what my interests are -> you pair me up with content that people from a certain circle enjoy (either my own or I specify).
    - Example: If I'm watching a gardening tutorial and on the physics professor, I want something that is a beginner-friendly, and highly rated/vetted by people who enjoy gardening.
